Chapter 1. 
Michael Ketiku


Program: 
Sequence of instructions on how to perform a computation. 

Python interpreter: reads and executes python code.


print("hello world") ; here print is a function that returns the string hello world to the screen.

Arithmetic operators: 
	+ ; addition
	- ; subtraction
	* ; multiplication
	** ; exponentiation

Type() ;function explains what type a value is 

float(fractional), string(sequence of characters), integer(whole numbers) are all classes 

Problem-solving: Formulating a problem, finding and expressing a solution.

Programming language: A formal language designed to express computation
	What does a formal language consist of?
		strict sytanx rules that govern the structure of statements
			A. Tokens: basic elements of a language e.g @ is a valid token
			B. Structure: legal ways of combining tokens e.g thi$ iz @ english sentence with valid tokens but invalid structure
			Parsing: when you read a statement in a formal language to figure out the structure 
	Difference between a formal languag and a natural(spoken) language:
		1. Ambiguity: Natural languages are ambiguous and formal languages are not
		2. Redundancy: Natural languages are redundant to make up/ counteract ambiguity and as a result are verbose. Formal langs are concise. 
		3. Literal: Formal langs are literal/ Natural langs are not. 



High-level formal languages: Python, Java, Ruby
Low-level formal languages: Assembler or Machine Language 

1. In a print statement, what happens if you leave out one of the parentheses, or both?

2. If you are trying to print a string, what happens if you leave out one of the quotation marks,
or both?
3. You can use a minus sign to make a negative number like -2 . What happens if you put a plus
sign before a number? What about 2++2 ?
	Nothing happens here, it prints 4.

4. In math notation, leading zeros are ok as in 02 . What happens if you try this in Python?
	The interpreter complains of an invalid token.
	a leading zero is a bad token 
5. What happens if you have two values with no operator between them?
	The interpreter complains of invalid structure.

Exercise 1.2. Start the Python interpreter and use it as a calculator.
1. How many seconds are there in 42 minutes 42 seconds?
	2562 seconds
2. How many miles are there in 10 kilometers? Hint: there are 1.61 kilometers in a mile.
	16.1
3. If you run a 10 kilometer race in 42 minutes 42 seconds, what is your average pace (time per
mile in minutes and seconds)? What is your average speed in miles per hour?
	159.1